## Shutting Down Safely

To ensure safe operation, Que needs to be very careful in how it shuts down. When a Ruby process ends normally, it calls Thread#kill on any threads that are still running - unfortunately, if a thread is in the middle of a transaction when this happens, there is a risk that it will be prematurely commited, resulting in data corruption. See [here](http://blog.headius.com/2008/02/ruby-threadraise-threadkill-timeoutrb.html) and [here](http://coderrr.wordpress.com/2011/05/03/beware-of-threadkill-or-your-activerecord-transactions-are-in-danger-of-being-partially-committed/) for more detail on this.

To prevent this, Que will block the worker process from exiting until all jobs it is working have completed normally. Unfortunately, if you have long-running jobs, this may take a very long time (and if something goes wrong with a job's logic, it may never happen). The solution in this case is SIGKILL - luckily, Ruby processes that are killed via SIGKILL will end without using Thread#kill on its running threads. This is safer than exiting normally - when PostgreSQL loses the connection it will simply roll back the open transaction, if any, and unlock the job so it can be retried later by another worker. Be sure to read [Writing Reliable Jobs](https://github.com/que-rb/que/blob/master/docs/writing_reliable_jobs.md) for information on how to design your jobs to fail safely.

So, be prepared to use SIGKILL on your Ruby processes if they run for too long. For example, Heroku takes a good approach to this - when Heroku's platform is shutting down a process, it sends SIGTERM, waits ten seconds, then sends SIGKILL if the process still hasn't exited. This is a nice compromise - it will give each of your currently running jobs ten seconds to complete, and any jobs that haven't finished by then will be interrupted and retried later.
